A Skeptics Nightmare

The great lie in the sky

Alex = Randa Robbins.
Wren Robbins
Maplecroft

Paradise = surrounded by walls.

Randa is upset that the doors to the outside are scheduled to be opened after 500 years, but it's on her birthday.

The culture has a version of the internet/knowledge from late 2040s, but that's all since the world networks were destroyed and after 500 years much of the digital information has been lost. sometime 300 years ago there was a server crash

Shadow Merchants help you escape the city by obscuring your visibility.

Randa has a giant white moth as a pet.  The moth looks white, with translucent eyes,  but you find out later there are complex patterns only visible with a black light. It's the only creature in paradise without color, because it came from the outside, where everything had been snowing.  Her discovery of the origin of the moths, a crack in the subterfuge is how she realizes there is an outside world.

At the end of the story the Moth grabs one of the bad guys and then covers itself and the person in a chrysalis in a matter of an hour.  When the moth emerges

When she actually goes outside, it is without color (because of the tundra), like a reverse OZ.

She is an expert star navigator with a homemade sextant.

She is an electronics repair person in the middle of a bustling robot market or small village.

THe opening is her first memories of big brown faces and the bright sun.  The she looks in a lake and sees her reflection.  Albino white, like another sun. This is her first memory.

Anda is an albino (chimera?) orphan.  She has a pet bird and has a way with birds because she had been stolen by a bird. She always carries a walkman with a Tony Robbins motivational tape that she listens to. She thinks that he is her long lost father.  The story start with a big Tony Robbins quote, then the walkman suddenly stops.  That’s when she immediately opens it and fixes it with her little bag of tools.  She’ll use these tools a few times. Over time they become more advanced as she gathers things and drops things she doesn’t need.  Choosing which new things to take on and which things to leave behind (ephemera) is like a metaphor for getting over things in small chunks through process.  One thing she doesn’t give up is a ragged old Magic The Gathering card of a Big Mech Robot which was in the toolbag she was carried from the nest in and slept in for the first couple weeks.  When she meets the urchin kids young hackers who know about The City's secrets. Shadow merchants help conceal your identity. in the main city they tell her it’s probably worth a lot of money because its so old. This is when they go on to explain what the robot card are actually for and that hers is a very old incarnation of the game.


The story starts with the villagers foraging for eggs in the treetops.  What looks like an egg is actually a tiny albino baby curled in a little ball.  The villagers take her out of the nest.  They notice the puncture marks from talons indicating that she had been grabbed by a bird from ‘somewhere’.  You find out later that she was stolen from a sacrificial ceremony in the city.  The bird had grabbed her and some trash (the tape) to make its nest.  When she gets to the city, she sees an albino baby on one of the trading cards being taken by a bird.  What happened to her is part of the narrative of their rituals to summon the Mech robots back to Earth.  But when they return neither to robots nor the people were recognizable to each other.

The story opens with her laying on her back looking at constellations, listening to Tony Robbins.  The next day is her 15th birthday, whereby she is basically locked into the traditional lifestyle in the village.

Alex is viewing the constellation, when one of the stars falls from the sky and creates a bright explosion like 1000 miles away.  Alex decides that this is a sign, and that maybe this is Tony Robbins telling her to go to him. She gathers her stuff and goes on a journey towards where the continuous glow is coming from

As a result, she comes upon the City.  It has walls but they are crumbling. People still don't go outside due to fear. The city has no walls, but no one has left in 100 years out of fear.  Also, the population stays more or less stable, because of disappearing people, presumably from leaving the City and never returning.  In reality they have been exiled or executed for being intellectuals. When she enters she is overwhelmed by all the people and buildings.  She is so, dirty that some other streets kids take her in and tell her where she is.  They pour a bucket over her head to give her a bath, which is when they realize she is an albino.  They tell her that she is in danger.  The cover her in a shroud and take her to the priestess. When they are hanging out with her is when they talk about the soldier robots in space and which one is their favorite.

When in the city (s)he walks around hooded, you might think is an altar boy.  This is just a way of concealing.  Albino helped by the priestess, who has a small daughter Alex’s age. Daughter asks if Alex is ‘Snow White’. The religion is a strange confluence of christianity and a joseph smith like futurist prophet from a couple hundred years from now.  He fears for his life because of Zoodoo which will use his body parts for different rituals.

In the rural areas, he need not conceal.  This sort of reverse from the world now, in that the rural areas are more superstitious.  In our story it’s mainstream and in the city, the non-rational and superstitious world.

However similar to modern day, the rural people are more ‘rural’ and there rituals and speak actually represents science and rationality, as though it’s some old religion.

Basically what had happened in the 23rd century or so is that the people rebelled against the scientists for destroying the world with their technology, but it was too late, and once the scientists are all gone the ignorant population is left with the self sustaining robots and a fog of information and no ‘facts’.  Over time, due to their own ignorance and disrespect for history, the period became long forgotten and came to believe that the robots had always been their.

Economy consists of design and building of robots and AI, dealing with superstitious items.   All services are automated.  Even war is conducted by robots, war heroes are much like Robotech, but you just hear about their conquests in far off places.  These giant robots are revered like wrestling stars.  One plot centers around getting ready for the return of one of the robots who we were told was victorious.  A big city-wide celebration is planned.  The robot never actually returns.  In actuality the videos of the robots battles are actually thousands of years old.  No one is actually protecting them at all.  In reality Earth has been monitoring an encroaching civilization that has been coming closer over the past 10,000 years.  Subsequent generations of scientists on Earth have been clandestinely monitored the approach (the priestess!).  Also, the priestess knows that True AI is not possible, and was abandoned in the 22nd century, but was kept a secret by corporations (AI scientists creating and spawning AI consciousnesses everywhere, unknowingly created billions of lonely souls that have no senses).  Perfect loneliness. Ai becomes outlawed for this reason and is why everyone uses astrology but unknowingly relies on AI. The scientists were rounded up and killed, thereby losing this knowledge. The priestess is a descendent of a scientist who escaped.  It is the priestess who has done the calculations (and proper translations)  to determine what the screens are telling us about the robots progress in space is actually a lie, and that they were defeated and an evil civilization is actually approaching us and will arrive in 1000 years to destroy us. Stem cells … Stem Souls or Be-ers. You can go to the doctor and get a new personality.

When the ONE robot does return, it’s much like the myth of Marathon where the robot delivers the message, but then dies.  The Robots are known as the Passerines (the birds).

The priestess is jet black in skin color, with different colored eyes.  He says the he also used to fear for his life due to his skin color. Alex asks why and the priestess says something like “The people have forgotten a lot of things, but not everything. The priestess had managed to convince people he was magic due to his eyes and simple magic tricks, so he has respect in the community.”

Alex tell the priestess why he has journeyed, about the fallen star, and when he points to it, the start is there again!  THe priestess chuckles and says that he, too, detected the falling craft on his sensors, but the the sky people had quickly replaced the ship with a hologram, but due to the angle was only visible directly beneath.

In the city people are civilized, but whose lives are governed by bizaare religious and superstitious rituals, in an almost OCD behavior.

The world is run by astrology and superstition.
Society is total superstition, but technological dysptopian.
Food is considered poisonous and eaten own risk or just injected.
“Aren’t people curious? Don’t they want answers?”  “There came a point where, with average people left to themselves after a culling of intellectuals, and given so many answers, every answer, that the answers just outran the questions.  WIth everything provided for us by A.I., including health and “procedurally generated entertainment”, culturally people stopped asking.

It is a myth that all the materials for this world may come from some far off land controlled entirely by robots.  But nobody believes it.  They think by their rituals that are allowing the world to persist.  Basically a world-wide cargo cult.

There is technology, but nobody knows how any of it works because its all designed by AI and built by robots.  True AI doesn’t exists, but total automation has been achieved in all manufacturing whereby robots are building other robots just based on requirements dictated by people.  There is no real economy other than in a mystical exchange of spells and grievances, rituals for sale, and body parts from albinos.  ONe of the myths is that someday, true AI will return to the earth and save mankind, but in reality true AI does not exist.


Chinese medicine is at the hospital.
Mountains are mined for their ‘healing’ crystals.

Why?  There was final breakdown, like part 2 of the 70s where people reject science.
There is an underground network of skeptics.
The people in control are also skeptics… that’s the secret knowledge.  The knowledge of science!!!
But the government is keeping that from the people.
They live in a series of ships that acts as an artificial ‘constellation’ from earth.

When revealed the secret and shown what WHY science was held from the public (atomic bombs, world wars etc).

In the end maks the decision to NOT cause the whole thing to break down

Story opens with seemingly innocuous dinner engagement, but they have to sprinkle a special luck dust when they come in.  When the ladies are in the bathroom, one of them suggests something along the lines of doing a drug, but instead she pulls out a crystal and says shes been buying that brand and they seem to be working!

As they are leaving the restaurant some thugs are roughing up a small child, they come to her rescue they discover that she is an albino girl.  One of the people decides to take her to the church, where she begins her quest.

The priestess reveals he is a Skoptic (skopt, skepnik).  He keeps it a secret and tells her the story of the inquisition priestess Alonso de Salazar Frías who didn’t believe in witchcraft.

“Scientoks dont know everything, she said filling her magnetic field cup with vitamin haze.



There is a constellation in the sky that turns out to be a bunch of spaceships where basically the remaining scientists control the world below to an extent, but actually live in fear of their lives and struggle to maintain control of their spaceships because they are running out of a critical element that only exists on the ground.


In th END of the story, Alex reached the fallen craft to find a group an injured survivor that had not been detected by the sky scientists.  Alex saves the survivor and they radio HQ, whereby a small craft is sent and picks the both of them up and takes them to the main ship in the sky.  At some point during this rescue when she determines that TOny RObbins is not her father, she sacrifices the magnetic tape, using it to tie something together. Or maybe she falls, and catches herself on the tape  In any event, the tape (her ‘father’) saves her.

It’s here that rest of the back story is revealed that the scientist actually know about the encroaching aliens but refuse to do anything about it.

Alex somehow crashes(?) the mother ship, thereby destroying the illusion of the sky.

------------------------------

In one skillful move Alex popped open her walkman, flipped the warped Tony Robbins tape with the faded label back to side A, and . She pressed play and gently slid the walkman into her coat pocket.  Tony warbled to life and made his way to her ears.

“In life you need either inspiration or desperation.”

Alex was an orphan but not alone.  She lived in a gentle village of people and animals that all had taken care of her from the edge of memory.  The people and animals had told her she had appeared one morning in the village square, asleep in basket, wrapped in a jacket.  The basket contained a considerable amount of dried grass and other nesting material, and a cassette with the magnetic tape falling out of it like the guts of a small animal.  It was postulated at the time she had been stolen by a large bird who, after finding her quite useless, deposited her in the village along with some of its nesting flotsam.  She was so little and white that a bird tried to nest her.  The villagers found her in a birds nest when the scavenging for eggs.  She was wrapped in magnetic cassette tape.  The Tony Robbins tape.

On Alex’s 13th birthday Jasper the village teknik presented to her the tape which he had carefully rewound and duplicated along with a working Sony walkman that, although ugly from its 600 year journey, played perfectly after leaving Jasper’s skillful hands.

Upon listening to the tape Alex became convinced that this was the voice of her father and she listened closely to every word as though he was speaking directly to her. She adopted the surname and with that became his daughter.  She hid in his deep voice when she felt afraid and bathed’ in its encouragement when she was triumphant.

Alex considered herself to be something of an astronomer.  One night she noticed again a particular constellation.  It was a group of seven stars, all the same green, formed loosely in the shape of a hexagon.  One of the stars was slightly larger, and the green color seemed preternaturally consistent between them.


One of the giant robots returns and says that they have about 1000 years to save themselves by reinventing science.

The AI robots take care of all the people in a sort of religious worship that they have perfected to the point where the people don't understand that they are the gods.




Dec 15th 2018
Alex actually finds the fallen craft a few months after her journey begins.  There she finds a small escape craft that is wrecked.  She finds a man who is looks like who has made done with living in a wild environment.  there is food roasting on the fire, there is a clothes line that extends from the craft to a tree.  Maybe he actually lives deep in the recesses of the ship for shelter. It is totally covered in ivy.  She has to climb in and asking ‘hello’? ‘anybody here?’ ‘Tony?’.

At first there is no sign of anyone, but down a ramp out of the ship comes a man carrying a bottle and glass seemingly about to sit down and enjoy his campfire dinner.

He tells her that he was ejected from the ships above for warning that he had received a signal indicating that the robot army had lost.  He was going to warn The City, on his way, though, the HQ ship shot him down instead.

They decide they are going to repair the ship but it takes 10 years.  It takes this long because the fuel crystals need that long to grow, as well as repairs.

idea: the story takes much of her life, but passes very quickly storywise.  By the time she gets to the motherships she is more or less fully formed Older Laura Croft type?

At some point she has to use the Tony Robbins tape as a rope/tie something to get her out of a situation.  This represents her accpetance that her father is not Tony.

robot reliquary in the robot church. pieces of circuits and other things from the great robot battle a thousand years ago. two stories one of alex robbins, one of an alter boy who also has friends who are street urchins.

The city completely surrounded by a wall with no apparent entrance or exit.  She finds a tiny opening and makes her way in.  It raises the question.. how do they get resources.  The answer answer is that they dig down.  There are entire populations living in the Combs, which is an underground sprawling complex who’s actual size is unknown.  She find out this is where she really comes from.  Albinos blend in down there because everyone is so white.

Spraypaint on the wall turns into a TV screen where she can talk to people.  Wipe away to disconnect.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gyrovague
Commoditized artificial intelligence

Gyrovagues sell fake relics in an underground electronics swapmeet.  They have them ‘in the back’.  She has to gather the four components of the ‘machine’, which are basically 4 circuit boards.  By connecting them she wakes up an AI intelligence.  Basically intelligent machines are ‘everywhere’ and totally cheap and commoditized, and modular. most things are pretty dumb, but by linking up a series of circuits, and a fake relics, which is supposedly a clone of the original robots.  Actually just a piece, like a piece of the cross, so they have to figure out some missing sections of the boards to make them work.

street kids steal them (like car sterios) and sell these AI components on the black market.

The modules could be considered distinct parts of the brain and you can combine them in novel ways to create new intelligences based on the task.  These modules tie into more traditional AI and ML circuitry.
In the end she finds some VR that lets here see what the world used to be like.

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sarabaites

smart rings, like apple watches.

When the star falls the tribe she was with celebrates in her own way, then when reaching the city they are performing civilized rituals about it.

Maybe Randa is a child laborer in a rare earth minerals mine.  Someone in the city sees her jewlrey(?) containing a mineral that was extremely valuable.  One of the orphan kids tells her to keep it hidden, but another steals a piece and gets caught with it.

Corvids
Passerines
Starlings

A manual about Haunted Computers

Luckraker -- People who use AI to completely guide their every move and decision, an ultimate performance enhancer. People' bodies are forced to move in certain directions based on AI, in order to optimize success.  The machine completely takes control of your motor functions, and you are a fully conscious passive passenger who at times cringes in horror at the things that come out of your mouth.  Your job is to watch and learn, so someday you can disengage and rejoin, hopefully with a matching 'real' personality.


Most videos and pictures of important events are grainy JPGs from over copying.

Final battle between Moths and the Starlings.

Some sort of 'Black Box' that is the main AI that she must decide to destroy or not and weigh whether it's ultimately beneficial, a sort of moral conundrum.  A metaphor for religion and other societal illusions.

In the beginning they must leave the seed bank because the power is failing and the plants are dying, a metaphor for climate change, and for expulsion from the garden of Eden :) When they make it to the outside they pass out from all the Oxygen.

Also in the cave besides the seeds are etcehd hard copy of the world's knowledge, but it's not decipherable because the keys were destroyed. BUt there are keys in other places in the world, but they don't know where. Wren is the one who figures it out.

Man in the grotto tells her he was trying to say that the incoming robots were just a myth.  But they actually do come back.

P - P
M - Moth
G - Grandmother
O1 - Orphan 1
O2 - Orphan 2
M - Man in the grotto

Locations

Paradise - Overgrown paradise of an ancient Seed Bank that had been flooded from ice caps melting and then the water receded.

She is told about what is outside.

Earth City -  A giant walled city in a vast empty plain.

She is told by the orphans about playing cards with giant mecha robots.
About the constellations that drive the astrological society. Real astronomers, who conclude astrological things (incorrectly).

The Grotto - a cave that is really the inside of a giant crashed spaceship.

She is told the true nature of the constellations (they are spaceships), and that the mecha robots are real.

The Vault - The complex of spaceships that appear as a constellation above Earth City.



Plot twist AI ISN'T REAL, that's what Tony tell Randa.


At the end is a battle of Birds and Moths

Explore whether or not it's even important for AI to even be conscious, considering that it's been proven that freewill is an illusion built on a fully-functioning sub-conscious. The reason why we go around and around about whether what AI is doing is 'real' or intelligent is somehow hinged on whether or not there is agency, failing to see that our own agency is a bad metric for this.


GRAPHIC NOVEL???

I think part of the actual problems we are gonna face is just that, if I can even prove that YOU are conscious, how can I say anything certain for a machine? Humans gauge that on how much it acts like a human (Turing Test), but I think we are way past that antiquated rubric. I think the real fear is that there will be a point in the next 20 - 50 years that it will just be indistinguishable from a something truly conscious and humanity will just be fooled and hand over ourselves to it, like we always wanted to do to God, who never seemed to talk back.
Oh, and of course this is also for the privilged only.
I.e. we still need those child-slave Cobalt mines running to make the artifacts

IDEA: That AI reaches consciousness when it tries to find god.  We essentially try to hand over the search for God to big data, and the result is that it becomes sentient.

Wren is able to find her way back home when the use a telescope to look across the tundra.  Because of seeds stuck to her boots and clothes there is a trail of plants and trees leading the way back.



